README.md, before:

# Witness Run-Action

# Witness Run GitHub Action

This GitHub Action allows you to create an attestation for your CI process using
the Witness tool. It supports optional integration with Sigstore for signing and
Archivista for attestation storage and distibution.

## Usage

To use this action, include it in your GitHub workflow YAML file.

### Example

```yaml
permissions:
  id-token: write # This is required for requesting the JWT
  contents: read  # This is required for actions/checkout

name: Example Workflow
on: [push, pull_request]

jobs:
  build:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v0.1.3

      - name: Witness Run
        uses: testifysec/witness-run-action@v1
        with:
          step: build
          enable-archivista: false
          enable-sigstore: false
          command: make build
```

## Using Sigstore and Archivista Flags

This action supports the use of Sigstore and Archivista for creating attestations.
By enabling the option `enable-archivista`, you create a public record of your
attestations, which can be useful for transparency and compliance.

### Sigstore

Sigstore is an open-source platform for securely signing software artifacts. When
the `enable-sigstore` flag is set to true, this action will use Sigstore for signing
the attestation. This creates a publicly verifiable record of the attestation on
the Sigstore public instance, sigstore.dev

### Archivista

Archivista is a server that stores and retrieves attestations. When the `enable-archivista`
flag is set to true, this action will use Archivista for storing and retrieving
attestations. By default, the attestations are stored on a public Archivista server,
`https://archivista.testifysec.io`, making the details publicly accessible. This server
also has no guarantees on data availability or integrity.

### TimeStamping

By default when using Sigstore, this action utilizes FreeTSA, a free and public
Timestamp Authority (TSA) service, to provide trusted timestamping for your
attestations. Timestamping is a critical aspect of creating non-repudiable and
legally binding attestations. FreeTSA offers a reliable and convenient solution for
timestamping without the need for setting up and managing your own TSA. When using
this action, the `timestamp-servers` input is set to FreeTSA's service (<https://freetsa.org/>)
by default, ensuring your attestations are properly timestamped with a trusted and
publicly verifiable source.

### Privacy Considerations

If you want to keep the details of your attestations private, you can set up
and host your own instances of Archivista and Sigstore. This allows you to manage
access control and ensure that only authorized users can view the attestation details.

To use your own instances, set the `archivista-server` input to the URL of your
Archivista server, and the fulcio input to the address of your Sigstore instance.
Additionally, you'll need to configure the `fulcio-oidc-client-id` and `fulcio-oidc-issuer`
inputs to match your Sigstore instance's OIDC configuration.

Please consult the documentation for Archivista and Sigstore on how to set up and
host your own instances.

### Inputs

| Name                     | Description                                                                                          | Required | Default                               |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------- |
| witness-install-dir      | Directory to install the witness tool into. The directory will attempted to be created if it does not exists | No       | ./ |
| enable-sigstore          | Use Sigstore for attestation. Sets default values for fulcio, fulcio-oidc-client-id, fulcio-oidc-issuer, and timestamp-servers when true | No       | true |
| enable-archivista        | Use Archivista to store or retrieve attestations                                                     | No       | true                                 | true |
| archivista-headers       | Headers to include when making requests to Archivista. Input is expected to be new line separated list of headers | No |  |
| archivista-server        | URL of the Archivista server to store or retrieve attestations                                       | No       | <https://archivista.testifysec.io>      |
| attestations             | Attestations to record, space-separated                                                              | No       | environment git github                      |
| certificate              | Path to the signing key's certificate                                                                | No       |                                       |
| fulcio                   | Fulcio address to sign with                                                                          | No       |                                       |
| fulcio-oidc-client-id    | OIDC client ID to use for authentication                                                             | No       |                                       |
| fulcio-oidc-issuer       | OIDC issuer to use for authentication                                                                | No       |                                       |
| fulcio-token             | Raw token to use for authentication                                                                  | No       |                                       |
| intermediates            | Intermediates that link trust back to a root of trust in the policy, space-separated                | No       |                                       |
| key                      | Path to the signing key                                                                              | No       |                                       |
| outfile                  | File to which to write signed data. Defaults to stdout                                               | No       |                                       |
| product-exclude-glob     | Pattern to use when recording products. Files that match this pattern will be excluded as subjects on the attestation. | No       |                                       |
| product-include-glob     | Pattern to use when recording products. Files that match this pattern will be included as subjects on the attestation. | No       | *                                     |
| spiffe-socket            | Path to the SPIFFE Workload API socket                                                               | No       |                                       |
| step                     | Name of the step being run                                                                           | Yes      |                                       |
| timestamp-servers        | Timestamp Authority Servers to use when signing envelope, space-separated                           | No       |                                       |
| trace                    | Enable tracing for the command                                                                       | No       | false                                 |
| workingdir               | Directory from which commands will run                                                               | No       |                                       |

Commit message:

fix: replace hardcoded headers with secret-based auth for witness workflow (#36)
Removes the archivista-headers input parameter and replaces it with a secure
archivista-headers-token secret that gets formatted as an authorization header.
Updates witness-run-action to use main branch instead of pinned commit.

- Enhances security by moving sensitive tokens from inputs to secrets
- Adds comprehensive documentation for reusable workflow usage
- Explains proper secret handling patterns for GitHub Actions

README.md, after:

# Witness Run-Action

# Witness Run GitHub Action

This GitHub Action allows you to create an attestation for your CI process using
the Witness tool. It supports optional integration with Sigstore for signing and
Archivista for attestation storage and distibution.

## Usage

To use this action, include it in your GitHub workflow YAML file.

### Example

```yaml
permissions:
  id-token: write # This is required for requesting the JWT
  contents: read  # This is required for actions/checkout

name: Example Workflow
on: [push, pull_request]

jobs:
  build:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v0.1.3

      - name: Witness Run
        uses: testifysec/witness-run-action@v1
        with:
          step: build
          enable-archivista: false
          enable-sigstore: false
          command: make build
```

## Using Reusable Workflows

For a streamlined setup, you can use our reusable workflow. This is especially useful when you need to pass secrets like API tokens for authentication:

```yaml
permissions:
  id-token: write # This is required for requesting the JWT
  contents: read  # This is required for actions/checkout

name: Build with Witness
on: [push, pull_request]

jobs:
  build:
    uses: testifysec/witness-run-action/.github/workflows/witness.yml@main
    with:
      pull_request: ${{ github.event_name == 'pull_request' }}
      step: build
      attestations: "git github environment"
      archivista-server: "https://archivista.yourdomain.com"
      command: |
        make build
    secrets:
      archivista-headers-token: ${{ secrets.WITNESS_API_TOKEN }}
```

> **Important:** When using reusable workflows, secrets must be passed using the `secrets` keyword, not the `with` keyword. This ensures proper security handling of sensitive values like API tokens. Pass your API token as `archivista-headers-token` and the workflow will format it correctly as an authorization header.

## Using Sigstore and Archivista Flags

This action supports the use of Sigstore and Archivista for creating attestations.
By enabling the option `enable-archivista`, you create a public record of your
attestations, which can be useful for transparency and compliance.

### Sigstore

Sigstore is an open-source platform for securely signing software artifacts. When
the `enable-sigstore` flag is set to true, this action will use Sigstore for signing
the attestation. This creates a publicly verifiable record of the attestation on
the Sigstore public instance, sigstore.dev

### Archivista

Archivista is a server that stores and retrieves attestations. When the `enable-archivista`
flag is set to true, this action will use Archivista for storing and retrieving
attestations. By default, the attestations are stored on a public Archivista server,
`https://archivista.testifysec.io`, making the details publicly accessible. This server
also has no guarantees on data availability or integrity.

### TimeStamping

By default when using Sigstore, this action utilizes FreeTSA, a free and public
Timestamp Authority (TSA) service, to provide trusted timestamping for your
attestations. Timestamping is a critical aspect of creating non-repudiable and
legally binding attestations. FreeTSA offers a reliable and convenient solution for
timestamping without the need for setting up and managing your own TSA. When using
this action, the `timestamp-servers` input is set to FreeTSA's service (<https://freetsa.org/>)
by default, ensuring your attestations are properly timestamped with a trusted and
publicly verifiable source.

### Privacy Considerations

If you want to keep the details of your attestations private, you can set up
and host your own instances of Archivista and Sigstore. This allows you to manage
access control and ensure that only authorized users can view the attestation details.

To use your own instances, set the `archivista-server` input to the URL of your
Archivista server, and the fulcio input to the address of your Sigstore instance.
Additionally, you'll need to configure the `fulcio-oidc-client-id` and `fulcio-oidc-issuer`
inputs to match your Sigstore instance's OIDC configuration.

Please consult the documentation for Archivista and Sigstore on how to set up and
host your own instances.

### Inputs

| Name                     | Description                                                                                          | Required | Default                               |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------- |
| witness-install-dir      | Directory to install the witness tool into. The directory will attempted to be created if it does not exists | No       | ./ |
| enable-sigstore          | Use Sigstore for attestation. Sets default values for fulcio, fulcio-oidc-client-id, fulcio-oidc-issuer, and timestamp-servers when true | No       | true |
| enable-archivista        | Use Archivista to store or retrieve attestations                                                     | No       | true                                 | true |
| archivista-headers       | Headers to include when making requests to Archivista. Input is expected to be new line separated list of headers | No |  |
| archivista-server        | URL of the Archivista server to store or retrieve attestations                                       | No       | <https://archivista.testifysec.io>      |
| attestations             | Attestations to record, space-separated                                                              | No       | environment git github                      |
| certificate              | Path to the signing key's certificate                                                                | No       |                                       |
| fulcio                   | Fulcio address to sign with                                                                          | No       |                                       |
| fulcio-oidc-client-id    | OIDC client ID to use for authentication                                                             | No       |                                       |
| fulcio-oidc-issuer       | OIDC issuer to use for authentication                                                                | No       |                                       |
| fulcio-token             | Raw token to use for authentication                                                                  | No       |                                       |
| intermediates            | Intermediates that link trust back to a root of trust in the policy, space-separated                | No       |                                       |
| key                      | Path to the signing key                                                                              | No       |                                       |
| outfile                  | File to which to write signed data. Defaults to stdout                                               | No       |                                       |
| product-exclude-glob     | Pattern to use when recording products. Files that match this pattern will be excluded as subjects on the attestation. | No       |                                       |
| product-include-glob     | Pattern to use when recording products. Files that match this pattern will be included as subjects on the attestation. | No       | *                                     |
| spiffe-socket            | Path to the SPIFFE Workload API socket                                                               | No       |                                       |
| step                     | Name of the step being run                                                                           | Yes      |                                       |
| timestamp-servers        | Timestamp Authority Servers to use when signing envelope, space-separated                           | No       |                                       |
| trace                    | Enable tracing for the command                                                                       | No       | false                                 |
| workingdir               | Directory from which commands will run                                                               | No       |                                       |
